[JSON manual] json inserts (#70)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/function/json_fn.rst

.. function:: JSON_MERGE (json_doc, json_doc [, json_doc] ...)

  **JSON_MERGE** is an alias for **JSON_MERGE_PRESERVE**.

JSON_ARRAY_APPEND
===================================

.. function:: JSON_ARRAY_APPEND (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

  The **JSON_ARRAY_APPEND** function returns a modified copy of the first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function appends the value to the json array addressed by the corresponding path.

  The (json path, json_val) pairs are evaluated one by one, from left to right. The document produced by evaluating one pair becomes the new value against which the next pair is evaluated.

>   If the json path points to an json array inside the json_doc, the json_val is appended at the end of the array. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the json path points to a json array inside the json_doc, the json_val is appended at the end of the array. 
```

.. function:: JSON_MERGE (json_doc, json_doc [, json_doc] ...)

  **JSON_MERGE** is an alias for **JSON_MERGE_PRESERVE**.

JSON_ARRAY_APPEND
===================================

.. function:: JSON_ARRAY_APPEND (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

>   The **JSON_ARRAY_APPEND** function appends the given json_vals at their given json paths inside the json_doc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_ARRAY_APPEND** function returns a modified copy of first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function appends the value to the json array addressed by the corresponding path.
```

  If the json path points to an json array inside the json_doc, the json_val is appended at the end of the array. 
  If the json path points to a non-array json element, the non-array gets wrapped as a single element json array containing the referred non-array element followed by the appending of the given json_val.

  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_APPEND ('{"a":[1,2]}','$.a','b');

::

      json_array_append('{"a":[1,2]}', '$.a', 'b')
    ======================
      {"a":[1,2,"b"]}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_APPEND ('{"a":1}','$.a','b');

::

      json_array_append('{"a":1}', '$.a', 'b')
    ======================
      {"a":[1,"b"]}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_APPEND ('{"a":[1,2]}', '$.a[0]', '1');

::

      json_array_append('{"a":[1,2]}', '$.a[0]', '1')
    ======================
      {"a":[[1,"1"],2]}

JSON_ARRAY_INSERT
===================================

.. function:: JSON_ARRAY_INSERT (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

>   The **JSON_ARRAY_INSERT** function inserts the given value in the json arrays at the given json paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_ARRAY_INSERT** function returns a modified copy of first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function inserts the value in the json array addressed by the corresponding path.
```

 
  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid or if a json_path does not address a cell of an array inside the json_doc.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_INSERT ('[0,1,2]', '$[0]', '1');

::

      json_array_insert('[0,1,2]', '$[0]', '1')
    ======================
      ["1",0,1,2]

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_INSERT ('[0,1,2]', '$[5]', '1');

::

      json_array_insert('[0,1,2]', '$[5]', '1')
    ======================
      [0,1,2,null,null,"1"]

Examples for **JSON_ARRAY_INSERT's** third rule. 

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_INSERT ('{"a":4}', '$[5]', '1');

::

      json_array_insert('{"a":4}', '$[5]', '1')
    ======================
      [{"a":4},null,null,null,null,"1"]

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_ARRAY_INSERT ('"a"', '$[5]', '1');

::

      json_array_insert('"a"', '$[5]', '1')
    ======================
      ["a",null,null,null,null,"1"]

JSON_INSERT
===================================

.. function:: JSON_INSERT (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

>   The **JSON_INSERT** function inserts json_val arguments inside the json_doc at the given paths.

Reviewer 2: The **JSON_INSERT** function returns a modified copy of first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function inserts the value if no other value exists at the corresponding path.

  Returns the resulting json after insertion.

  The insertion rules for **JSON_INSERT** are the following:

>   For each (json path, json_val) pair, from left to right, if the json path addresses an existing element inside the json_doc, the argument pair is ignored and does not overwrite the existing json element.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  - An array index past of an existing json array's end. The array is filled with nulls after the initial end of the array and the json_val is inserted at the specified index.

  The document produced by evaluating one pair becomes the new value against which the next pair is evaluated. 

  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid.

Paths to existing elements inside the json_doc are ignored:

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_INSERT ('{"a":1}','$.a','b');

::

      json_insert('{"a":1}', '$.a', 'b')
    ======================
      {"a":1}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_INSERT ('{"a":1}','$.b','1');

::

      json_insert('{"a":1}', '$.b', '1')
    ======================
      {"a":1,"b":"1"}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_INSERT ('[0,1,2]','$[4]','1');

::

      json_insert('[0,1,2]', '$[4]', '1')
    ======================
      [0,1,2,null,"1"]

JSON_SET
===================================

.. function:: JSON_SET (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

>   The **JSON_SET** function inserts or replaces json_val arguments inside the json_doc at the given paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The **JSON_SET** function returns a modified copy of first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function inserts or replaces the value at the corresponding path.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: remove one empty line

>   For each (json path, json_val) pair, from left to right, an existing value is searched inside the json_doc at the json path and is replaced with the given json_val.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  Otherwise, the json_val is inserted if the json path addresses one of the following json values inside the json_doc:

  - An inexistent object member of an existing json object. A (key, value) pair is added to the json object with the key deduced from the json path and the value being the json_val.
  - An array index past of an existing json array's end. The array is filled with nulls after the initial end of the array and the json_val is inserted at the specified index.

  The document produced by evaluating one pair becomes the new value against which the next pair is evaluated. 

>   Returns the resulting json after insertion.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_SET ('{"a":1}','$.a','b');

::

      json_set('{"a":1}', '$.a', 'b')
    ======================
      {"a":"b"}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_SET ('{"a":1}','$.b','1');

::

      json_set('{"a":1}', '$.b', '1')
    ======================
      {"a":1,"b":"1"}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_SET ('[0,1,2]','$[4]','1');

::

      json_set('[0,1,2]', '$[4]', '1')
    ======================
      [0,1,2,null,"1"]

JSON_REPLACE
===================================

.. function:: JSON_REPLACE (json_doc, json path, json_val [, json path, json_val] ...)

>   The **JSON_REPLACE** function replaces json elements inside the json_doc at the given paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The **JSON_REPLACE** function returns a modified copy of first argument. For each given <json path, json_val> pair, the function replaces the value only if another value is found at the corresponding path.
```

>   For each (json path, json_val) pair, from left to right, an existing value is searched inside the json_doc at the json path and is replaced with json_val.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  Otherwise, if the json_path does not exist inside the json_doc, the (json path, json_val) pair is ignored and has no effect.

  The document produced by evaluating one pair becomes the new value against which the next pair is evaluated. 

>   Returns the resulting json after replacements.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid.

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_REPLACE ('{"a":1}','$.a','b');

::

      json_replace('{"a":1}', '$.a', 'b')
    ======================
      {"a":"b"}

No replacement is done if the json path does not exist inside the json_doc. 

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_REPLACE ('{"a":1}','$.b','1');

::

      json_replace('{"a":1}', '$.b', '1')
    ======================
      {"a":1}

.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT JSON_REPLACE ('[0,1,2]','$[4]','1');

::

      json_replace('[0,1,2]', '$[4]', '1')
    ======================
      [0,1,2]

JSON_REMOVE
===================================

.. function:: JSON_REMOVE (json_doc, json path [, json path] ...)

> The **JSON_REMOVE** function removes the json element addressed by the json paths in the json_doc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **JSON_REMOVE** function returns a modified copy of first argument, by removing values from all given paths.
```

The json path arguments are evaluated one by one, from left to right. The result produced by evaluating a json path becomes the value against which the next json path is evaluated.

>   Returns the resulting json after removal.

Reviewer 2: This line may be removed if suggested first paragraph is accepted.

  Returns NULL if any argument is NULL.

>   An error occurs if any argument is invalid or if a path points to the root or if it does not exist inside the json_doc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  An error occurs if any argument is invalid or if a path points to the root or if a path does not exist.
```
